seng438-a1-10.md, before:

>   **SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#1 – Introduction to Testing and Defect Tracking**

| Group: 10    |
|-----------------|
| Mohamed Ebdalla                |   
| Aryan Karadia              |   
| Raisa Rafi               |   
| Zoraiz Khan             |   


**Table of Contents**

(When you finish writing, update the following list using right click, then
“Update Field”)

[1 Introduction	1](#_Toc439194677)

[2 High-level description of the exploratory testing plan	1](#_Toc439194678)

[3 Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing	1](#_Toc439194679)

[4 Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports	1](#_Toc439194680)

[5 How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was
divided	1](#_Toc439194681)

[6 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons
learned	1](#_Toc439194682)

[7 Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself	1](#_Toc439194683)

# Introduction

In our lab work, we're focused on testing the ATM simulator through a structured process. We start with exploratory testing, where we navigate the system looking for any potential issues without relying on predefined test cases. We then move on to manual testing, where we execute specific test cases to systematically validate each aspect of the ATM simulator's functionality. And finally we conclude with regressison testing ATM System - Lab 1 Version 1.1 to see if any new and/or existing bugs are present in the newer version of the system. 

Prior to the lab to we had a decent understanding of these testing processes. We knew that exploratory testing was more of a flexible approach which involved understanding the system itself, whereas manual testing required a predefined test suite or a structured approach to make sure that the software was behaving as intended.

# High-level description of the exploratory testing plan

In this exploratory test plan, we'll follow the typical user path at an ATM. First, insert a valid ATM card, enter the associated PIN, and ensure the system progresses to the main menu. Proceed to withdraw cash in various amounts, starting from $20 and then $40. Then, we are going to make a deposit of $60 with cash and then check the balance of the chequeing account. We are also going to cancel a withdrawal midway and verify it hasn't withdrew money accidently. Deliberately enter an invalid PIN, attempt a withdrawal exceeding the balance, and simulate a transaction failure, assessing error handling mechanisms.

# Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing

Even though exploratory testing and manual functional testing have different approaches, we noticed they complimented each other. Exploratory testing uncovered unexpected issues, giving us the opportunity to catch bugs that could've been otherwise overlooked/missed during manual funcitonal testing. It gave us the flexibility to use our own intuition and create a number of possible real world scenarios in which the machine could be used for. While manual testing, following predefined cases, provided a structured validation process. We used it to validate specific functionalities of the system. This combination allowed us to thoroughly assess the ATM simulator, giving us a comprehensive testing procedure.

Our exploratory and manual testing process:

Starting with exploratory testing, our initial focus was on verifying the accuracy of information given to us about card 1 and 2, along with their respective accounts. Firstly, we noticed that the system failed to correctly display the accounts corresponding to each card for all transaction types. Moving forward, we attempted to confirm the available balance in each account, cross-matching it with the provided values in the lab instructions. However, we could only successfully validate the Checking account, and were unable to view balances for both Savings and Money Market accounts.

After that our testing extended to depositing cash into one of the accounts. This resulted in the deposition of an incorrect amount, as displayed by the receipt. Following this, we proceeded to test the withdrawal functionality. We found out that despite the ATM having sufficient funds, the system displayed an "insufficient funds" message, indicating a bug in the cash dispensing process.

In manual functional testing, we followed the provided test cases from Appendix C. Most bugs were caught during the exploratory phase, but a few new issues showed up. One of them being, the system not displaying an error for unreadable cards, prompting PIN entry instead. Additonally, after entering an invalid PIN, even with a valid one aftward, the system continued to claim the PIN was incorrect.

# How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was divided 
We took turns running the program and reporting the issues. Work was divided evenly between all four members. For the pair testing, one person went through the system while the other person watched and reported and bugs that were found.


# Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned
Initially, we had trouble with coming up with a high-level exploratory test plan as we are new to software testing. To overcome this, we discussed and brainstormed using the high level requirements provided to generate a test run. We learned that it is important to understand the system before jumping straight into testing the system. We also learned how to professionally report and track bugs in a group setting which mimics the real world. It also took a while to get used to Jira for reporting and tracking bugs as none of us have had experience with it in the past.


# Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself
The instructions were easy to follow, but it would be nice to have another guideline on how to set up the bug tracking softwares (in our case, Jira). The background information given to us about how to step through the system was very helpful.

Commit message:

peer reviews of defect reports

seng438-a1-10.md, after:

>   **SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#1 – Introduction to Testing and Defect Tracking**

| Group: 10    |
|-----------------|
| Mohamed Ebdalla                |   
| Aryan Karadia              |   
| Raisa Rafi               |   
| Zoraiz Khan             |   


**Table of Contents**

(When you finish writing, update the following list using right click, then
“Update Field”)

[1 Introduction	1](#_Toc439194677)

[2 High-level description of the exploratory testing plan	1](#_Toc439194678)

[3 Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing	1](#_Toc439194679)

[4 Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports	1](#_Toc439194680)

[5 How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was
divided	1](#_Toc439194681)

[6 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons
learned	1](#_Toc439194682)

[7 Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself	1](#_Toc439194683)

# Introduction

In our lab work, we're focused on testing the ATM simulator through a structured process. We start with exploratory testing, where we navigate the system looking for any potential issues without relying on predefined test cases. We then move on to manual testing, where we execute specific test cases to systematically validate each aspect of the ATM simulator's functionality. And finally we conclude with regressison testing ATM System - Lab 1 Version 1.1 to see if any new and/or existing bugs are present in the newer version of the system. 

Prior to the lab to we had a decent understanding of these testing processes. We knew that exploratory testing was more of a flexible approach which involved understanding the system itself, whereas manual testing required a predefined test suite or a structured approach to make sure that the software was behaving as intended.

# High-level description of the exploratory testing plan

In this exploratory test plan, we'll follow the typical user path at an ATM. First, insert a valid ATM card, enter the associated PIN, and ensure the system progresses to the main menu. Proceed to withdraw cash in various amounts, starting from $20 and then $40. Then, we are going to make a deposit of $60 with cash and then check the balance of the chequeing account. We are also going to cancel a withdrawal midway and verify it hasn't withdrew money accidently. Deliberately enter an invalid PIN, attempt a withdrawal exceeding the balance, and simulate a transaction failure, assessing error handling mechanisms.

# Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing
Even though exploratory testing and manual functional testing have different approaches, we noticed they complimented each other. Exploratory testing uncovered unexpected issues, giving us the opportunity to catch bugs that could've been otherwise overlooked/missed during manual funcitonal testing. It gave us the flexibility to use our own intuition and create a number of possible real world scenarios in which the machine could be used for. While manual testing, following predefined cases, provided a structured validation process. We used it to validate specific functionalities of the system. This combination allowed us to thoroughly assess the ATM simulator, giving us a comprehensive testing procedure.

Our exploratory and manual testing process:

Starting with exploratory testing, our initial focus was on verifying the accuracy of information given to us about card 1 and 2, along with their respective accounts. Firstly, we noticed that the system failed to correctly display the accounts corresponding to each card for all transaction types. Moving forward, we attempted to confirm the available balance in each account, cross-matching it with the provided values in the lab instructions. However, we could only successfully validate the Checking account, and were unable to view balances for both Savings and Money Market accounts.

After that our testing extended to depositing cash into one of the accounts. This resulted in the deposition of an incorrect amount, as displayed by the receipt. Following this, we proceeded to test the withdrawal functionality. We found out that despite the ATM having sufficient funds, the system displayed an "insufficient funds" message, indicating a bug in the cash dispensing process.

In manual functional testing, we followed the provided test cases from Appendix C. Most bugs were caught during the exploratory phase, but a few new issues showed up. One of them being, the system not displaying an error for unreadable cards, prompting PIN entry instead. Additonally, after entering an invalid PIN, even with a valid one aftward, the system continued to claim the PIN was incorrect.


# Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports
Both pairs initiated testing through exploratory testing, starting with the cross-matching of values provided in the instructions with those present in the actual system. There were instances where both pairs identified the same defect, but we ensured the avoidance of duplicate reports with the help of Jira by keeping notes of all the discoveries. Our discussion was mainly focused on how we should go about describing things initial state, reproduction steps and other relavent details so that we can be as precise as possible when reporting a defect.


# How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was divided 
We took turns running the program and reporting the issues. Work was divided evenly between all four members. For the pair testing, one person went through the system while the other person watched and reported and bugs that were found.


# Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned
Initially, we had trouble with coming up with a high-level exploratory test plan as we are new to software testing. To overcome this, we discussed and brainstormed using the high level requirements provided to generate a test run. We learned that it is important to understand the system before jumping straight into testing the system. We also learned how to professionally report and track bugs in a group setting which mimics the real world. It also took a while to get used to Jira for reporting and tracking bugs as none of us have had experience with it in the past.


# Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself
The instructions were easy to follow, but it would be nice to have another guideline on how to set up the bug tracking softwares (in our case, Jira). The background information given to us about how to step through the system was very helpful.
